So we've talked about,
a couple of the core
principles of object-oriented programming.
We've talked about encapsulation,
we've talked about inheritance
a third pillar is polymorphism,
which is the ability to
take multiple forms.
Specifically, in object-oriented
programming, polymorphism is where.
A subclass can define their
own unique behaviors and yet
share some of the same
behaviors of their superclass.
So an example of polymorphism is where
an object can have a superclass type,
which is a class, so
animal is the superclass but
it is an instance of a subclass Okay so
here
we have an object called Dog it's defined
as type animal which is a superclass.
But it is an instance of type
dog which inherits from animal.
So we're able to do this because
dog inherits from animal and
therefore dog is an animal, right?
Okay, so
we're going to demonstrate an example
of polymorphism between an animal,
a dog, and a cat.
All right, so
this should be a fun exercise.
So in our IDE, let's make a new
class under the inheritance package.
And we'll call this one Animal.
And in the Animal class let's just make
one method that we'll call make sound and
then we'll just make
a print statement here
that says unknown animal
sound frightening right
All right, and
then let's make another class under
inheritance that will call Dog.
Dog will, of course, inherit from animal.
And, let's override,
that make sound method.
And in this one, we'll print woof
And let's also make another method
that is specific to the dog.
We'll call this one fetch.
And then fetch will just
print out fetch is fun.
All right, and
then let's create one more class.
We'll call this one Cut.
It will also inherit from animal
We want to override that makes sense.
The cat says meow.
And we'll add a specific methyl for
cat called scratch.
And this will print out.
I don't know I am a cat I scratch things.
I scratch things.
Okay, this is our inheritance,
let's create one more class
just to test inheritance out.
We'll make a zoo, new class called Zoo.
Maybe it should be called farm?
I don't care, whatever you want.
All right, so
we'll create a main methyl in Zoo.
And I wanna create a new Dog.
So we'll create a Dog.
His name is rocky.
And if we say rocky.
Then we have fetch and make sound, right?
Those were the methods that
were in the dog class.
Okay, so
let's say rocky is going to fetch.
And let's just test this out.
Make sure everything is set up properly.
Great, we have fetch.
It's fun, perfect.
Now let's say rocky.make sound,
make sure that he's woofing, run this,
and yes, he's woofing, perfect.
So we're all on the same page, right?
Regular inheritance there.
Okay, now when we get to
the polymorphism part,
let's make a new Dog but
they're of type animal her name is Sasha
we're gonna instantiate Sasha as a dog
All right,
now when we say sasha.makeSound.
What method do you think
is gonna be called?
The one from animal or the one from dog?
How many people say animal?
It's really just a gamble at this point.
How many people say dog?
Okay, people are just on the edge of
their seats waiting to see what happens.
>> Someone said animal online.
>> Animal.
Okay all right let's see.
So we're gonna run this
Sasha is an animal dog and
Wolf was the one that was.
That was executed.
All right, okay, good, make sense?
Now let's get into some really
wonky polymorphism we are going to
change sasha from a dog to a cat.
I know.
And if we say sasha.makeSound,
what sound will she make?
Meow.
Very good, very good.
Okay.
Excellent polymorphism really
powerful tool in java you see
how we can change from
one class to another.
The key points to remember
is that an object can have
a superclass type, but
a subclass Instance.
If a method is overwritten by a subclass,
then it's going to execute
the method the overriding method.